---
title: "NN-sort: Neural Network based Data Distribution-aware Sorting"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2019-arxiv
date: 
venue: 'Arxiv'
paperurl: ''
citation: 'Gurbinder Gill, <b>Roshan Dathathri</b>, Saeed Maleki, Madan Musuvathi, Todd Mytkowicz, Olli Saarikivi, “Distributed Training of Embeddings using Graph Analytics,” Proceedings of the 35th IEEE International Parallel and Distributed Processing Symposium (IPDPS), May 2021.'
---
[(Download earlier arxiv version here)](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1907.08817.pdf)


### Abstract

Sorting is a fundamental operation in computing. However, the speed of state-of-the-art sorting algorithms on a single thread has reached their limits. Meanwhile, deep learning has demonstrated its potential to provide significant performance improvements in data mining and machine learning tasks. Therefore, it is interesting to explore whether sorting can also speed up by deep learning techniques. In this paper, a neural network-based data distribution aware sorting method named NN-sort is presented. Compared to traditional comparison-based sorting algorithms, which need to compare the data elements in pairwise, NN-sort leverages the neural network model to learn the data distribution and uses it to map disordered data elements into ordered ones. Although the complexity of NN-sort is $nlogn$ in theory, it can run in near-linear time as being observed in most of the cases. Experimental results on both synthetic and real-world datasets show that NN-sort yields performance improvement by up to 10.9x over traditional sorting algorithms.

### Cite this article
Zhu, X., Cheng, T., Zhang, Q., Liu, L., He, J., Yao, S., & Zhou, W. (2019). NN-sort: Neural Network based Data Distribution-aware Sorting. arXiv: Data Structures and Algorithms.
