---
title: "Color-UNet++: A Resolution for Colorization of Grayscale Images using Improved UNet++"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2021-MTA
date: SEPTEMBER 5-10, 2021
venue: 'Multimedia Tools and Applications'
paperurl: ''
citation: 'Gurbinder Gill, <b>Roshan Dathathri</b>, Saeed Maleki, Madan Musuvathi, Todd Mytkowicz, Olli Saarikivi, “Distributed Training of Embeddings using Graph Analytics,” Proceedings of the 35th IEEE International Parallel and Distributed Processing Symposium (IPDPS), May 2021.'
---
[(Download publication here)](https://www.cs.utexas.edu/~roshan/GraphAny2Vec.pdf)

[(Download earlier arxiv version here)](http://arxiv.org/abs/1909.03359) 

### Abstract

Colorization is the computer-assisted application of color to a gray scale image, which presents two problems to modern deep learning-based approaches. One is to provide colorization models with both high expressibility and strong learning ability, as current models have difficulty both excelling at coloring and being easy to train. The other is to return a picture without uneven overlap. This paper proposes a deep convolutional network framework called Color-UNet++ for the end-to-end solution of these colorization problems. Color-UNet++ is adjusted to settle gradient dispersion and explosion by capturing more transfer and intermediate results during backpropagation. We adjust the de-convolution structure to solve the problem of uneven overlap. We design the model in YUV instead of RGB color space, with an objective function that is appropriate to the coloring problem and can capture a wide range of colors. A large number of experimental results on LFW and LSUN datasets confirm the method’s superiority.

### Cite this article
Di, Y., Zhu, X., Jin, X. et al. Color-UNet++: A resolution for colorization of grayscale images using improved UNet++. Multimed Tools Appl (2021). https://doi.org/10.1007/s11042-021-10830-2
